Now it is time to buy a VPS.
VPS, as we said before,
was the virtual private server.
Again, your own piece of
internet real estate,
the place we can do wherever we want.
I like the concept of the VPS because it's
a wide open field, it's a blank canvas.
We can make it to be whatever we want, but
essentially we're just buying a server.
So by server,
we're going to open our browsers and
we're gonna go to digital ocean.com.
If you use that link,
you get some credits.
I get some credits.
We're all happy.
That's the lesson learned from previous
courses where I did not do that I lost
a lot of credits, but
click on that link instead of going
directly to Digital Ocean and I will do.
Do you get free credits to run your server
which is great so won't cost you any money
in the short term and generally these
servers run about $5 a month or so.
So, don't worry about the costs running
out but make sure you shut down your
servers afterward because that'll
get you to I paid that one.
So I'm gonna navigate to digitalocean.com.
And I already have a login so
I'm just going to log in.
So generally we're gonna
create a new project.
You can call it whatever you want.
And the purpose doesn't really matter.
But we'll say class project educational.
Purposes, that we will get a pretty broad
a lot of help make the UI a little bit
simpler, and description if you want.
I created one called Full Stack For
Frontend 3, and for
class educational purposes
I'll move really slowly.
The reason why we're using Digital Ocean
and not something like AWS.
AWS is much more complex,
it has a probably a broader suite of
offered services that you can do but for
the purpose of this class we
don't need any of those things.
We don't need to set up route 53 or
a bunch of easy-to-use things like that.
And guess what?
Is there a course on AWS
on frontend masters?
You bet there is.
There is a course on AWS.
So if you really wanna get good,
there's an entire course talking about
the tools and the procedures you
use to set up AWS environments.
So if you want to dig in there.
I like Digital Ocean,
they have really great tutorials.
A lot of what we're gonna cover today,
you could probably look up and
see some of the tutorials
on Digital Ocean.
The UI is very friendly.
You're probably not gonna shoot yourself
in the foot, which is possible pretty
easily when you're creating a server or
even modifying a server.
Digital Ocean does
a pretty good job on that.
And now I'm not sponsored
by Digital Ocean.
I just like their UI for
a creating service.
So we need to create a server
we're on Digital Ocean.
So it's gonna create, and Digital Ocean
calls them droplets Digital Ocean droplet.
Yeah, you see where it's going?
AWS calls them easy to.
Yeah, not as interesting.
[LAUGH] That's AWS or Digital Ocean.
But let's create a droplet.
So let's click the droplet.
So next let's pick our region.
So why does the region matter?
That we pick.
Why would it matter?
Yes.
>> It helps determine where you're
gonna serve the website from.
>> Yeah, exactly.
We wanna know where we're serving from,
so we're developing on that,
but we also wanna know where
our visitors are coming from.
So we always want the closest region to,
where we think our visitors are gonna be,
not necessarily where we're developing
from, unless it's just development server.
In that case, put it closer to
where all the developers are.
I live in California,
I live in beautiful Oakland, California.
So I'm gonna pick San Francisco
as the closest droplet location.
New York is generally a good choice for
East Coast people and in general.
In the console of AWS, they have
different regions to have US East 1,
2, they have US West 1, 2, etc.
And at least that Netflix
we use all the regions.
So we have servers
available in all regions.
And generally if you're creating a high
scale web application you're gonna have
servers in all the regions
around the world.
And you rely on load bouncers and
really good routing to direct
your users to the right place.
But for this is class, pick the one that's
closest to you and your part of the world.
Next, I'm gonna choose the data center.
And it doesn't really matter.
In this case, I'm just gonna say SFO1,
totally fine.
And look, Digital Ocean,
they even have a tip here.
Just what I was saying, select
a data center closest to your users.
See, that's why we use Digital Ocean,
little helpful tips like that.
Now it comes time that we'll get serious.
Region, total easy we
can pick another region.
Operating system,
the OS you have to live with.
You can easily switch OSs once
you start developing on one.
So we wanna be really concerned
about what we're gonna choose here.
We're gonna choose Ubuntu.
And we're gonna choose the LTS version and
the 64 bit LTS version.
And let's talk about that here.
Because the the OS is
actually fairly important.
Like I said, Ubuntu the most common one.
And LTS stands for long term support, and
that's the one you want
running on your server.
If you're gonna go through the trouble
of buying an operating system,
putting all these hours into
developing an application.
You wanna make sure it's on the LTS and
not something that's on the bleeding edge.
It's really tempting to be on the bleeding
edge, but you have to think like
an enterprise software developer, which
is is it gonna be on the bleeding edge?
No, because there's bugs, there's
things that people haven't encountered.
You want the most recent, but the slowest,
most stable version you can get for
your operating system.
That's always the rule when you
think about enterprise computing.
You're welcome to choose
something more on the bleeding or
close to the more recent version,
but always stick with LTS.
I was gonna say that's a pretty good rule,
unless you really need a registration.